Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Okay, great Thank you so much, thank you for consenting to the interview, and now we're ready to get all open it up, if you guys have any other questions feel free to just interrupt me to stop me.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And so, first with some introductions.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Looking at your name preferred pronouns place employment on your role in your place of employment and any work you do related to world P, focusing on main responsibilities and how long you've been working with the world P Program.
Andrea Vona: i'm Andrea vona she her hers i'm the section head for our grants and legislative policy section within planning and development of the county of Los Angeles department of parks and recreation.
Andrea Vona: I have been with the county of Los Angeles, for three years in this capacity, my involvement with the or LP program with for as it relates to our department, would be to.
Andrea Vona: apply for funding through their grant programs for program for projects within the county and I have it my experience to date is really with one we've we've had one successful award so we're currently in the process of.
Andrea Vona: Congress negotiations and conversations with state parks and NPs around this.
Andrea Vona: Hopefully upcoming grant award so that's I think that today answer all those questions okay.
Clement Lau | DPR: hi my name is clements wow i'm i'm the head of our planning and sequence section at Los Angeles county parks and recreation.
Clement Lau | DPR: been with the department for about 15 years and my section.
Clement Lau | DPR: And those long range planning, as well as governmental compliance.
Clement Lau | DPR: So we work closely with with Andrew on grant applications.
Clement Lau | DPR: yeah its various projects, especially with respect to compliance with cbre and deeper with the Federal grants.
Clement Lau | DPR: In world and.
Clement Lau | DPR: limited experience with this particular grant program is the same project that Andrea mentioned.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah Thank you so much, and now we.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): can go into the questions, and so our first question is on this first project that la county was awarded it was the ford's theatre hiking trail for getting a research project on.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And so we're wondering what was the general experience in applying for this program on any initial thoughts before we ask specific questions.
I think the general.
Andrea Vona: I think the general experience and applying for the program because this it's administered through the state.
Andrea Vona: it's it was and it seemed like the state.
Andrea Vona: Is state parks, is working to try to make.
Andrea Vona: The application as user friendly as possible, and so it was it seemed fairly in alignment with other with possibly with other competitive state park applications, I mean it wasn't overly a typical like I said would say in that regard.
Andrea Vona: i'm trying to remember, because it's like benefit a couple years now since.
Andrea Vona: yeah I saw I guess your that was your question like just general impressions of the yeah, but I think I don't know you might have more questions later on, but it's it's less clear up front when you're applying, though, when you would be awarded and what there's less there's less.
Andrea Vona: it's definitely unknown like what the overall timeline is, which is, which is a typical just which is unusual, so that was different.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah Thank you Clement if you have anything.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): To add or not necessarily.
Clement Lau | DPR: yeah I mean I share that most most of the input you're going to get probably from Andrea histories and those grants section on my it's pretty focused on the mental compliant.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Okay, great.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): So our next question is.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): What components of or LP do you think our work like worked well, while you are applying and why do you think these things might have works well.
Andrea Vona: oops I thought I would pull up maybe our application so I can.
Andrea Vona: Have a refresh but um.
Andrea Vona: Because I honestly don't even remember all of the questions we have so many applications.
Kitty Craig (she/her): into a bit while while you're doing it, I was just curious I know y'all were awarded are all stored.
Kitty Craig (she/her): In her the hiking trail and but were there have you also applied before in previous rounds and we're not afforded that was history that we didn't have.
Andrea Vona: No, I will I can't I don't know I could look up our departmental history and see we have we have our department definitely has been the recipient of several lw cf grants over the years, but it the rfp program is different correct.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Yes, yes.
Andrea Vona: So I don't know that we have.
Andrea Vona: i'm not aware that we have implemented any other or LP grants and I personally, we have, at least in the past three years hadn't applied for any.
Andrea Vona: Other ones so it's like my This is my one yeah correct we hadn't This was our first application and then for successful, but I will say I don't know if this is valuable in fell because I mean I feel like I should just like tell you the story and i'd probably answer, like all your questions.
Andrea Vona: Because we apply we applied and.
Andrea Vona: that's why I was trying to look at my files, because we applied in.
Andrea Vona: Well i'll look up the years later, but it took so because we had a we had a grant submission into them for or LP and a whole year had gone by, and we still hadn't heard, whether that was successful or not successful, we were encouraged to apply again.
Andrea Vona: So we actually had to apply twice and then they decided to award the first application and so that was like you know technically waste of time to apply twice if that makes sense, so I guess i've applied twice, but it was all the same project.
Andrea Vona: So that's what I was getting at with timelines.
Andrea Vona: Earlier, let me look what find try to find this.
Andrea Vona: yeah brown hair so yeah we applied in 2020 the 2020 I guess application was awarded, and then we also apply to get in 2021 because we didn't know that are at that point that are 2020 would be awarded.
Andrea Vona: And then they had been they rejected our 2021 application, because they were decided to award the 2020.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah, thank you for telling us that background, were there any other challenges to applying to funding, besides the.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): timeline applying twice.
Andrea Vona: yeah I mean I.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): I think.
Andrea Vona: I mean, I can get into challenges on what I think the challenges.
Andrea Vona: That I assume will be questions later about like challenges with the program and implementation of the program, but I think in terms of applying I don't recall any.
Andrea Vona: specific challenges.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And so, did the state parks, did they work with you like frequently they had like a lot of communication with you throughout the process, or was it mostly just a straightforward application on like grants.gov.
Andrea Vona: um know what it was the our submission went in state parks and they were their project team was helpful.
Andrea Vona: I had several questions for them around the match the 50% match requirements and what could count what would constitute a match and the timeline around the match, and they were.
Andrea Vona: held the state park staff was responsive and willing to have phone calls or was definitely respond to emails so our submission goes and went into state parks and then they.
Andrea Vona: I think they repackage them and then send them to MPs, is my understanding.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah Thank you and then I think one last general question is so right now, on average, around 25% of all the funding is not utilize each grant cycle around 25% funds are left on the table um So if you have any inclination as to why cities or urban areas are not applying for this funding.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): um.
Andrea Vona: yeah I mean this might be whether or not I can I guess i'll just share my general feedback on the program I don't know if this is why people are not applying, but I think some of the issues with the program are you apply and then it takes.
Andrea Vona: You know, like we're expecting slash hoping to get just as an example of grant contract, this summer, which would be summer of 2022 we applied in 2020 so it probably takes about two years from when you apply to get an actual grant contract, so that is.
Andrea Vona: That timeline often that may not be so the length of time that it might take for someone to receive funds, the I don't know the match requirement.
Andrea Vona: And I think there's a CAP, the amount of money so there's a match required.
Andrea Vona: I mean here's the whole deal they want very specific cost estimates, they want everything very specific specific budgets and then you're required to provide a match.
Andrea Vona: But you can't.
Andrea Vona: there's a CAP as to how much of that Max you can have spent within I think like a couple years of the application.
Andrea Vona: So you need to have like a really well developed project, you need to have all the funding almost all in place, because they want to see the full funding picture, but you can't really have spent much of that money yet.
Andrea Vona: And then you can't spend it until like you're on contract with them, which takes a long time to get to, so I think I think successful applicants are going to be those that have the luxury of time and that are already resourced, with their project.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Yes, thank you, I think that falls into our next question, most of the questions this one I usually get the same answer for but who asked.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Does the design of oral P help ensure funds are being directed to communities that are most in need of this additional funding for improved or more outdoor recreation.
Andrea Vona: I don't see anything in particular that's really helping the funds be targeted towards communities most in need, other than I think.
Andrea Vona: This is where I definitely could be incorrect, I think it, the funds are targeted towards urban census tracts or something Is that correct so there's that component which I suppose so so but in terms of I think what your question just said is the program designed I don't.
Andrea Vona: I don't see evidence of that, I mean I don't I don't have anything else to point to other than it's it's being focused toward urban communities.
Andrea Vona: i'm not sure if that answers your question.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah um.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah I was like we could go on to the next question to which is on like their definitions of underserved communities which.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): have been changing each cycle, they released the notice of funding opportunity with a new definition each cycle.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And if you would like we've like captured on what these definitions look like, so we could send them in the chat right now.
Okay.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And this is just um something me and kitty have pulled together like we've created ourselves to track what it means to be a underserved.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Community mm hmm and I know la county seems to do like a lot in terms of definitions and like California does as well, I saw like like in 2016 we did you guys did park needs assessment.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And so, in terms of like the hiking trail project, how did you guys just.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): determine like or define an underserved community.
Andrea Vona: We looked at.
Andrea Vona: it's not opening for some reason for me so i'll have to look at the definitions later, but.
Andrea Vona: We looked at, we looked at census tract information, and I think we used was an SP we used just DAC an s dot community.
Andrea Vona: identifications within census tracts that were within half a mile of the park site and so that was the link.
Andrea Vona: And part of our justification was also because it's a regional park the park that we're supporting, so I think overall where the park is located, it is not in a high park need area but because regional parks, have a large service radius and serve.
Andrea Vona: A broader geography of people that was that was what we used.
Andrea Vona: You know, and then, and also in terms of the high need Community concept or or just sort of underserved communities often I think sometimes these faces haven't really.
Andrea Vona: FLEX the muscles around like trying to access all these funds and it's a it's sort of a complicated program to administer.
Andrea Vona: as well because you're tied out now you have federal funds touching a project and that triggers on the planet is you know.
Andrea Vona: Also, can speak to but it triggers a different level of environmental review that's it, you know cities may or may not have familiarity with in terms of nepa and section 106 so it adds you know the.
Andrea Vona: By virtue of receiving and orla grant it added it actually also adds cost to our project, because now we have additional environmental review, so I mean that could also be a barrier for people.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah and the census tract data that you look at on do you look at like a specific tables like poverty level or race or, if you could give like a specific on.
Andrea Vona: tables we i'd have to look at our.
Andrea Vona: Application I think yeah we looked at this let's see their application.
Andrea Vona: win a prize should get back to you on this question, but we look at.
Andrea Vona: I think it's it's in line with the the.
Andrea Vona: The criteria for for disadvantaged communities and severely disadvantaged communities those definitions.
Andrea Vona: Under is it SP 32.
Andrea Vona: That made that.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And I can't remember I know it's on it.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Okay yeah.
Andrea Vona: that's the that was so we weren't creating our own definition, you know we were working with.
Andrea Vona: Those established definitions, as a way to show.
Andrea Vona: Impact to those groups.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah Okay, and then another thing and orlev applications is that they require a quantification of like job development or job creation, I was wondering um how this like application, how you guys quantify that there's some sort of calculator you guys use I know it's a little bit ambiguous.
Andrea Vona: yeah I think part I mean maybe where we part of what helped us for this application, and I think being the county We already have a lot of kind of workforce development.
Andrea Vona: policies in place and because this particular project falls above a certain budget threshold, there is, and I was going to try to pull this up my computer is spinning.
There it is.
Andrea Vona: There were already.
Andrea Vona: Things that we are complying with in terms of work force, development and a jobs coordinator position to be added as a part of this project, and so we had some quantification, but it is difficult, like we're not able to quantify the exact number of people that gets very difficult.
Andrea Vona: i'm sorry Mike, this is not letting me search, but basically we tied it back to.
Andrea Vona: We tied it back to two things we tied it back to working with a conservation corps and the workforce development that will happen as part of their.
Andrea Vona: involvement and being contracted to implement a part of the project and also tied it to the existing county workforce development policies that are in place.
Andrea Vona: With there's like targeted local worker hires within certain zip code radius is of projects and other things, that the county has established so we just tend to restate that that back in our application.
Andrea Vona: So I think in some ways that made it easier for us to respond to that question because we we already are.
Andrea Vona: Pretty proactive around that I know clever do you have anything to add that you might be more familiar with our workforce policies, I don't know.
Clement Lau | DPR: um no definitely not workforce.
Andrea Vona: Sorry yeah and i'm happy to like send you that excerpt to have that's abuse, but that's That is how we respond to that question.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah definitely that'd be helpful, especially like NPs or the state parks if they didn't like give you any feedback or any pushback on that I know in terms of like other applicants, they were saying that.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): I was quite confusing and they got like a feedback they weren't like they didn't know how to respond to.
Andrea Vona: So, though interesting.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah yeah trying to create like a recommendation for like perhaps you know la county can set a standard for what this means.
Andrea Vona: yeah, although I don't know because ours is so complicated it's like it's like they look at, I think it looks at me income within.
Andrea Vona: You know zip code radius is and targeted local worker hiring I mean that might be really complicated for smaller cities to implement, so I don't hate to yeah but maybe I will i'll send you what we sent them and then.
Andrea Vona: If that's useful.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah because it could be beyond what a parks department could even do that's a whole other office to bring into this.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Which is a yeah an issue in many smaller urban areas or underserved urban areas.
Andrea Vona: Yes, yeah where there's this very minimal city staff right it's hard.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah Thank you um and then I think we already touched on this a little bit, but if you could describe your experience what was like working with the California department of perks and rock and NPs if you did you contact like order.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Have any communication with NPs during this process, or is all through California hearts.
Andrea Vona: Not that I recall, I believe all of our communication has been through State parks, you know email or phone or teams meetings and they're kind of serving as a conduit and then they will relate to us feedback that NPs has for us to respond to.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah and then how was that experience working with them the state parks i'm.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): gonna.
Andrea Vona: Say perks is great, I mean I yeah I feel like this.
Andrea Vona: shape works has been helpful and responsive.
Andrea Vona: I think they're doing the best they can to sort of take this program and make it accessible and be responsive so that yeah they've been they've been responsive and.
Andrea Vona: helpful state park staff yeah.
Andrea Vona: um yeah it's just I get it sometimes I don't know that.
Andrea Vona: yeah so sometimes we'll we'll respond and then submit it to state parks and then it'll go to NPs and then they'll have questions and i'll go back to state parks will come back to us so.
Andrea Vona: Sometimes things take a while to.
Andrea Vona: Get resolved, but it's they've been responsive.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah that's great it seems like California state parks i'm definitely has it together in terms of parks and nationally.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And then, our next question is around Community engagement and what this looks like through that um there's a hiking trail project, how you engage with the Community what sort of like steps you took to have meaningful engagement.
Andrea Vona: So I think part of what enabled us to also apply for this grant is that we This project was.
Andrea Vona: Like already kind of fully conceptualized and designed and with very accurate cost estimates, and so there we really kind of just captured in our application, a lot of engagement that had occurred which was.
Andrea Vona: There was engagement in the master plan process for the four theaters master plan and there had been some engagement well in 2016 for the park needs assessment.
Andrea Vona: folks commenting about meeting at more Ada accessibility or different things, so we really kind of just captured the work that had already been done.
Andrea Vona: We were not able to do engagement just for this this application like it wasn't specific to this for this grant, but it was for the project in general.
Andrea Vona: So we kind of summarize that back in our application and that's what we did, but I think, just as a general comment, it seems like from just a lot of these larger competitive brands.
Andrea Vona: As a grants person I always just find it helpful if it's always so helpful if, like the project is already established as a project and a lot of the engagement has happened because there's not.
Andrea Vona: We don't have a lot of time always to prepare the applications and so it's hard to be doing.
Andrea Vona: Things as meaningful as Community engagement, while you're trying to prepare grant hmm so it's nice to know you already have to buy into the Community ahead of time and that those things have happened already.
Andrea Vona: Nothing engagement lever ends, but you know at least what's documented for the application.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah that's great to hear and also something I just thought about was We talked to California state parks and they were mentioning like concept papers around projects, I was wondering if you submitted any of that or if they implemented the concept paper.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): In other grants cycles I I couldn't tell if it was like a new thing that the State parks was asking for.
Andrea Vona: I don't know they call it a concept paper.
huh.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): For just like parks that could potentially be eligible for like i'll wtf are all P or other kinds of fundings to having sort of concept papers to send out so, then the parks can match it with a grant Program.
Andrea Vona: Oh, I haven't heard so it's something that state parks would produce and give out to people, or it goes the other way.
Andrea Vona: That they would submit to them.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah they like have like a call for concepts papers and then.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Their contacts get back to them that way.
Andrea Vona: Oh OK.
Kitty Craig (she/her): I think part of that's driven by acknowledging.
Kitty Craig (she/her): That these application processes can take a really long time so they're trying to kind of help people build a pipeline.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Like get through some of these hurdles anyway, so they might not run into them later and slows the process down even more, I think.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah part of the driver.
Andrea Vona: yeah I mean I could have missed that I don't know I mean I knew that like.
Andrea Vona: We try as good practice it's kind of good to like slope the concept by like before you just spend all the work.
Andrea Vona: In an application like.
Andrea Vona: To be in touch with someone and say does this sound like a good fit for your program which we probably did that I don't remember candidly but um.
Andrea Vona: But yeah that makes sense, so they're trying to queue up like for or look what yeah that makes sense.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah um and then our next question is on what other like grant programs or initiative says la county utilize that like overlap with or schools and increasing outdoor recreation to urban or economically disadvantaged or underserved communities, if you guys have any existing tools.
Andrea Vona: mm hmm wait tools or grant like grants that we're trying to.
Andrea Vona: be awarded or or administer or tool.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah you're after brands.
Andrea Vona: That we work with so we work with, so the measure, a program and La county is a big one, for us, so that was.
Andrea Vona: That was.
Andrea Vona: You know, passed by the voters in 2016 I think it was and.
Andrea Vona: So that's huge because that has like a calculation built into it it's based off of the park needs assessment that like countywide park needs assessment and it has a.
Andrea Vona: Calculation in the formula is where geographic areas that are considered to be either high need are very high need for parks, which has several metrics built into that.
Andrea Vona: received a more higher proportion of funding allocation so so it's directing more funding to those areas that are of the most need so that's a giant one for us, we found great value in the prop 68.
Andrea Vona: proposition 68 through State through implemented through a lot of it through State parks, because the Community fact Finder tool that was developed by state parks prioritized.
Andrea Vona: You basically are going to rank higher through this competitive process if the lower than the median income and the less few less least amount of parks per one half mile radius.
Andrea Vona: For residents, so they developed a tool that's fantastic for that.
Andrea Vona: So that's been valuable for our department to be able to win grant funds for very, very high need communities.
Andrea Vona: And pausing Clement did you have any other.
Andrea Vona: Thinking I mean there's so me feel like so many grant programs now have.
Andrea Vona: Your you have a more competitive edge if you're serving a disadvantage or severely disadvantaged Community or located in, so I think a lot of of them like urban greening has has ties in tie into that which is administered through natural route California department resources.
Andrea Vona: cal fire I believe their programs tie in to definite stacks.
Andrea Vona: For advantage, so I think there I think there's a.
Andrea Vona: And we seek funding from all of those programs.
Andrea Vona: And more somebody yeah and then we work with other other groups like national park and recreation Association, the nflpa and they have like I wouldn't say.
Andrea Vona: Well, they do have project funding but program funding for play equity and other you know equity measures that are focused on.
Andrea Vona: Serving serving communities so there's a whole and I guess, I will just comment that overall the La county.
Andrea Vona: Like department of parks and recreation, we hold up the park needs assessment as our North Star and so sort of all of our work is really focused.
Andrea Vona: To try to bring as many resources as possible into high very high need areas as defined as we're kind of defining them through the park needs assessment and so that really that's how we prioritize our work and so.
Andrea Vona: Because of that we're obviously looking for for any grant programs that we would have an advantage in applying toward that are going to have similar similar lines.
Kitty Craig (she/her): say I think I said this beginning but i'm up in Seattle and Washington up here and we in King county particular and.
Kitty Craig (she/her): We are looking to La and to all the work the often done there to to really operationalize you know these promises of equitable funding projects so so much great work, some of which we've tried to copy.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Working with Yvette about folks up to learn from you all were doing the work but you've just been incredible so.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Anyway, I just wanted to kind of reiterate that you all are definitely on the cutting edge based on all these other places where we're working.
Andrea Vona: Oh that's so it well that's nice to hear because we're just kind of working and I don't know what's happening, but Clement is.
Andrea Vona: You know he's at the forefront of a lot of the work with the needs assessment and was involved in that process and in the development of that document, and I just want to also share.
Andrea Vona: If I can plug you climate that he's in the process of developing right now over an update to our regional and world needs assessment.
Andrea Vona: Because we found, and this is like a tangent sorry ariana from your end of this interview, but we found that.
Andrea Vona: While the park needs assessment it's so fantastic in so many ways there's some aspects of it that we realized that needed to be updated for rural and more regional parks and rural communities.
Andrea Vona: Because there are true needs in a lot of these communities that don't always get captured by some of the metrics that are kind of prioritizing more urban places and so.
Andrea Vona: we're looking at and and just candidly we found we were at a disadvantage that that tool I applauded earlier that part of that community fact Finder that California state parks develop also completely prioritize population density and.
Andrea Vona: So we would have a committee we've we you know would have my like there'll be a community that had zero parks per acre per 1000 people, but because the maybe the the density was so low of people.
Andrea Vona: Anyway, i'm going down a little bit of a rabbit hole, but I just want to say that some of that might also apply kitty to what you're doing like less populous areas, possibly some of these updates of what clements looking out for trails and things like that, so you guys can connect.
Kitty Craig (she/her): that'd be really learn more about, especially if you have stuff coming out That summarizes the work or tools or whatever and updates and reports and be great to track.
Clement Lau | DPR: yeah kitty will have a report out this year.
Kitty Craig (she/her): This year.
Clement Lau | DPR: is called a regional Andrew edition.
Clement Lau | DPR: And we're calling is an update to the needs assessment as Andrew said that really focusing on.
Clement Lau | DPR: Rural areas and the regional context.
Clement Lau | DPR: You know, like, for example, I think, Andrew mentioned this for trail itself, we just look at our 2016 parks needs assessment is located within the study area that's I think low.
Clement Lau | DPR: Low need Stefan not high piney, but when you look it doesn't make a lot of sense when you're looking at a facility that serves a regional.
Clement Lau | DPR: Population so it's not just the immediate area that you're in also this broader what we're calling the visitor shared.
Clement Lau | DPR: So.
Clement Lau | DPR: So you see that kind of analysis in.
Clement Lau | DPR: This region on row edition that.
Clement Lau | DPR: will be releasing and also just highlighting the needs of underserved rural areas.
Clement Lau | DPR: Which as Andrew said, have have no parks and they may be surrounded by parkland like National Park national forest, but in actuality they lack the amenities that maybe urban folks used to give it to this don't have.
Clement Lau | DPR: playgrounds and sports courts and all that.
Clement Lau | DPR: So you don't want to deviate too much, but definitely have some things to share with you.
Kitty Craig (she/her): so happy yeah it's not deviating at all I think it's super relevant and Aaron and I were just in a conversation yesterday with national park Service staff.
Kitty Craig (she/her): you're kind of just getting coordinated on this project, but other things I mean there, and especially focusing on how can the federal government catch up with like.
Kitty Craig (she/her): They probably will never catch up with like la county in terms of identifying.
Kitty Craig (she/her): disadvantaged communities are priority communities, because there's obviously an administration commitment to directing resources to the communities that need it most, but.
Kitty Craig (she/her): There is no standard and the agencies are trying to figure out a way, how can we create some.
Kitty Craig (she/her): tools somewhat universal tools that can help make sure that we're directing resources to the places that need it most, and of course as a federal agency.
Kitty Craig (she/her): may need to serve both rural and urban communities and that's often it seems like there are more formulas that do do what you're saying like I don't say it's figured out for urban areas, but.
Kitty Craig (she/her): doesn't appear to be something that kind of crosses that rural urban area very well in terms of like one tool but.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Anyway, so everything that you're sharing is really relevant to, and I think we'll end up highlighting this in the report, in some way.
Kitty Craig (she/her): i'm in like understanding how everybody's measuring these things differently and trying to trying to draw some potential recommendations and connections to.
Kitty Craig (she/her): You know, for the agency so they can help them kind of advance because they're really, really trying to figure out how to how to do better, and you know kind of create that institutional change to that needs to happen to.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Make sure that they're delivering resources more equitably across all the communities that they serve so anyway learning a ton from what you all, are doing down in La.
Andrea Vona: When they just updated kellen by room screen that's another tool, I know yeah 4% 4.0 now, which has got a lot of.
Andrea Vona: But I think you're right can it'll be interesting to see if there would ever be one tool, or if it would be I kind of feel like it might be a menu like your project can qualify, and maybe there's a few tools like there's the.
Andrea Vona: Whatever fact Finder or the viral screen or different if there's like I did see a grant recently where they allow you to pick one method to show how you were serving and disadvantage community.
Andrea Vona: And they had four options and you'd have to choose one this was actually ironically from caltrans, which is our transportation.
Andrea Vona: I say, ironically, because they're kind of there was a little bit of a process, but I thought that was kind of interesting.
Andrea Vona: And if you were tribal you were just automatically disadvantage, so it was like or maybe it was five options, though.
Andrea Vona: I could be something.
Andrea Vona: to think about.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah that's something we're talking about like how on ej screen, they have like national environmental data nothing on parks there's nothing on parts anywhere nationally.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): um so that is interesting, and I feel like an all the conversations we've had the urban requirement is just the 50,000 or more people is on it's it's not helping people like apply to these sort of grants.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): and also in terms of this is just fun i'm from La county and i'm from the antelope Valley, so when you guys were talking about rural communities like yeah.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): I was looking at your guys's report and seeing all the pictures of the poppy fields, and I was like Oh, I spent my whole life there.
Andrea Vona: Oh cool.
Andrea Vona: yeah we were trying to get a new park built in little rock.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): My parents went to little rock high school and everything so.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): it's, like the other than like the unincorporated areas of a.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Little rock.
Andrea Vona: Oh perfect your are her Africa yes and and that and, unfortunately, that project did not get funded through State parks and I I I I know it's because they told us it's because of the how the Community fact Finder.
Andrea Vona: shook out and it's because the population density solo.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah and the whole antelope valley is just like a product of sprawl essentially so there's so many people that live there, but it's just spread out everywhere and it's so car dependent that like nothing as a 10 minute walking distance and the antelope valley from my experience.
Andrea Vona: Exactly yeah you hit it on the head yeah that's right.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah i've done lots of reports and undergrad about transportation sprawl urban planning antelope valley yeah and i'll evaluate.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): It can use all the help I could get.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): um but yeah Thank you so much, and so our next question i'm on just in terms of going back to the hiking trail is what did you guys use for the other 50% of funding, what you guys use for the match, and when do you secure this funding.
Andrea Vona: um we used a variety of sources, so we had you know we used, we had a grant already secured from the city of Los Angeles, we had local funds already secured from the puppy.
Andrea Vona: proposition a there had there was one existing state park grant so it was it was a variety of sources that we were able to list.
Andrea Vona: For the rest of the required funding sources.
Andrea Vona: On the budget table.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): So they're all like from the city or from the State.
Andrea Vona: They were.
Andrea Vona: yeah they were state local state and local, I guess, so that one was city county I guess that would both be local and state so from from three yet, but no other federal funds.
Andrea Vona: Okay that's good to know.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And then another question is just when do you begin the cultural and environmental reviews um do you like start once you've been pre selected, or is the review process already begun before you i'm submitting to the state.
Andrea Vona: My.
Andrea Vona: recollection is that when we have we apply we apply, knowing that we would have to have.
Andrea Vona: I think it's the section 106 and nepa done prior to a grant award, but we did not initiate any of that work until we were informed that our project was being recommended for funding, so I think that's correct right climate.
Andrea Vona: Is that right yeah the story.
Clement Lau | DPR: I would just add.
Clement Lau | DPR: You know, Andrew mentioned, as there was the fourth year of master plan so when that was done, there was a secret documents and then I remember the impact report that was done that contemplated included the trail.
Clement Lau | DPR: So we satisfy sequel requirements, but with the Federal grant.
Clement Lau | DPR: Now we have to do the federal.
compliance.
Kitty Craig (she/her): I realize, I was on mute and i'm typing away apologize, a question for that, because this is something that's come up in a few hundred conversations is.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Is this cultural environmental review process, and I think Andrew you mentioned that those are kind of costs that this county would just kind of bear on its own, but I mean is there, how does it interact with.
Kitty Craig (she/her): How do you fund those extra processes, I guess that's one question or could that be a barrier for some other jurisdictions applying for funding and then the second part is like How does that work with timing, because I know that.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Was processes can take a long time, and do you have to get those done before you even get to that final grant agreement.
Kitty Craig (she/her): point of the process, I don't know do any more insight on giving us a little sense of that but.
Andrea Vona: yeah I mean via I, my understanding is that we're supposed to have.
Andrea Vona: It done but by the time we they want to see that, in conjunction with like giving us a grant award.
Andrea Vona: But I guess you're absolutely right it's like yes, that does take time and I suppose for some projects, there could be new.
Andrea Vona: I mean, this is just me talking like new mitigation measures that surface or new things to comply with that might surface for some projects, I think, because our project had an e ir already completed, we felt pretty strong competent around having.
Andrea Vona: An an understanding of the project and impacts and knowing kind of where we would shake out for that, but I do believe that the added record the added added federal environmental regulations could be.
Andrea Vona: The could I know they shouldn't be unanticipated because I do think that the program makes it very clear that applicants have to.
Andrea Vona: comply with federal environmental regulations, but I think I would yeah I could definitely would that cost time time to a project timeline if unless you unless your project already had federal funding.
Andrea Vona: Until you already have that dealt with.
Clement Lau | DPR: yeah I would just add to so section 106 it's pretty technical so we couldn't.
Clement Lau | DPR: Do it in house, we have to hire a consultant.
Clement Lau | DPR: And Angela can correct me from wrong, we had to find money to pay for this, unfortunately, I think one of the other grants that we go for this project allows.
Clement Lau | DPR: For this expenditure.
Andrea Vona: Right right right.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And if you spend that money on a coal through review it still gets matched by NPs correct or because I know there's some issues i've heard with them.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): People like trying to work on the project prior to like the final grant agreement being breached and then NPs doesn't want to match that.
Andrea Vona: yeah that's I think that's a that's a challenge, they.
Andrea Vona: I forget the exact exact metrics but they only allow a certain amount or percentage I think of the matching funds to be expended in the planning phases and like within a certain time period before you have an executed grant agreement, so we had to get.
Andrea Vona: That down to the duck to the penny as well, like our as our match will be coming in at the same time, so, like you, you basically it like freezes the project until you.
Andrea Vona: can start working through their grant agreement again, so I don't know on matching I don't really I can't really speak to whether or not they match the environmental, but I just an overall for their their match.
Andrea Vona: yeah you can't have all the magic expended before I believe you cannot have all the magic spending, for example, and then have them come in and just have pay for the second half of the project, they want it kind of all concurrent.
Andrea Vona: So.
Andrea Vona: yeah.
Andrea Vona: And it's our job to spend I mean you have to spend money on a project to get a project to the point where you know how much would it cost and what what is its exact design and and have enough information to apply for the grant.
Andrea Vona: So you're you're presumably or down some sort of a road that has a timeline, so it is a challenge.
Kitty Craig (she/her): That was one question or one thing that we've heard this long timeline.
Kitty Craig (she/her): But it can be difficult to hold on to kind of match funding throughout that process is that was kind of one follow up question related.
Kitty Craig (she/her): To kind of to match funding that we were that we had I don't know la has if you've experienced that or kind of any additional insight to share on that kind of just what it takes to maintain that when you wait.
Andrea Vona: I think that's accurate statement because you know I think a lot oftentimes grants or let's say for three years, they want to give you a.
Andrea Vona: grant for two to three years if it takes if you need to have your match all in place by the time you apply for orlev.
Andrea Vona: you've applied by the time you apply in here back two years have gone and you're a firm two years have gone by, so you've got one year left on a grant it so yeah we were having to extend grants.
Andrea Vona: But I would like to just also state that i'm not I cannot attribute that to or live like i'm not that's also.
Andrea Vona: If we have a very complicated project with a complicated funding stretch, so I i'm not saying we are, we are extending grants because of war, look but i'm saying, but it is, I could see how one could have to do that because.
Andrea Vona: it's just oftentimes state grants are from two to three years, like I said, and so you have to have them to apply, and then the next one takes two years to get you've got like a 12 month construction window, which can might be really tough.
Andrea Vona: Depending on the project.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): All right, so I think we're coming up on time justin like if you guys have any last questions, I think we just have one final question that might be short.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And just if you had one ask for NPs or the state parks regarding or look funding and the program implementation, what would this ask me that we could bring back.
Andrea Vona: Can I have a few as.
Andrea Vona: Well, I would I would love it, I think it would be so helpful.
Andrea Vona: Because it would be helpful, I think, for us to be really clear like application when the applications are due, when the awards would be announced when the contracts would be available to.
Andrea Vona: recipients, because I think that would allow people to know if this grant program fits within the timeframe that they may have, or need to have for their project, and also because this.
Andrea Vona: program funds land acquisition, these are certainties that people need to have when they're when they are dealing with a negotiating with potential land sellers so.
Andrea Vona: It can't just be open and ambiguous so that would be requested one around more transparency and like adherence to timelines around awards and and contract executed implementation and then.
Andrea Vona: yeah I mean it would be nice to just be it would be nice to be able to count fine, it would be nice to loosen up the brackets around the batch and not have it had to be so time bound like.
Andrea Vona: If you know I get it if they didn't want to count funds that were spent 30 years ago on a project, but I mean something reasonable that's clearly for that project like I don't get the why it's bound the way it is.
Andrea Vona: As a second comment, a third comment, the lw cf permanent map the map the jurisdiction.
Andrea Vona: Are you familiar with that map requirement.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Or is it the in perpetuity.
Andrea Vona: mm hmm mm hmm, so I think.
Andrea Vona: Like.
Andrea Vona: we're going back and forth with them a little bit on one of our on a map and it's.
Andrea Vona: it'd, be it would be interesting to know if there could be other provisions for park agencies that are obviously in the business of.
Andrea Vona: conserving places and operating places in perpetuity for public the restrictions around the old WCs map are are tight and so.
Andrea Vona: I don't know I could see that as being another potential barrier.
Andrea Vona: Like we're working on a proper our project is has an operator land and so there's certain things we may not want to a fix in perpetuity on the space and so it's a and not want to have an candidly not don't feel we should have to negotiate those changes with MPs.
Andrea Vona: When we in ourselves are.
Andrea Vona: we're here to serve the public interest, so we so anyway, I think that could be looked at as well.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Can I ask a follow up on that were this from our Washington state liaison officers was around that like you know that the bounce edge they described it as like the boundaries.
Kitty Craig (she/her): And so that's what you're talking about like when you have a project, you have to.
Kitty Craig (she/her): draw those in permanent pen around whatever that project bb and then yeah you have those obligations to maintain it in perpetuity right and then any changes, you want to make to it that triggers that conversion process is that.
Andrea Vona: Right correct, and so the added complication is and it's, not even the project boundary they want the boundary around the whole park or the whole parcel or land, so if you're if you're getting funds to improve a picnic shelter in a 30 acre park they want the boundary around 30 acre park.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah.
Andrea Vona: And they fight for that, so I so that's kind of where we are we're like we just want to put in a trail, but now they want to encumber.
Andrea Vona: They want to uncover our 30 acres or whatever it is, but we have an operator it's a cultural arts performance venue before theater.
Andrea Vona: it's an operator around and we're like that, and it has very aged aging facilities, and we know that we are going to need to like.
Andrea Vona: Make the restrooms bigger we're going to have to modify the parking like there's things we know per the master plan that are already in the works, and so I weren't i'm just I don't want actually this to be attributed in any work.
Kitty Craig (she/her): In detail, but.
Andrea Vona: it's we're negotiate i'm trying to negotiate with them to like allow for flexible operations for an up you know it's still a recreation facility, but it's a cultural arts venue.
Andrea Vona: So.
Andrea Vona: I get it like I used to actually be the end of a land trust and I totally love and support conservation easements and I worked in that space.
Andrea Vona: But so but they're like conservation easements but they're trying to put, but I feel like that's fine if you've got like a shady developer that's wanting to tap into funds, but if it's a park agency doing it, I just feel like they should there should maybe be a different way to work.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah.
Andrea Vona: That makes sense I just.
Kitty Craig (she/her): You know, fully the Washington folks shared with us they're like yeah you know when it comes to trails we don't even recommend.
Kitty Craig (she/her): This program like will scare applicants toward a different program because of that was what they were implying like, especially for a trail going through a site that might be quite large does that becomes onerous and the folks that we chatted with an Illinois she was saying that.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Just the in perpetuity requirement and the conversion process just they don't even really use the program at all because of that for.
Andrea Vona: yeah you can eat some.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Noise, so this isn't really interesting thing to hear something that we might follow up with to get more detail on.
Andrea Vona: yeah because I mean you know and.
Andrea Vona: yeah so it's difficult because I absolutely believe in the permanence of land protection, but if you've already got a space that's protected, because it's a park.
Andrea Vona: We have the park preservation act and calfresh like we already if we already have.
Andrea Vona: protections in place or you know it's yeah it's interesting that additional layer of encumbrance I mean we're used to deed restrictions, because that's what state parks does actually require those as well, which are in perpetuity.
Andrea Vona: But it's not it's still not as I don't think there's still as onerous if there's a modifications at the park I don't think that that that causes a default on the deed restriction.
Andrea Vona: Whereas yeah if there's a structure that needs to be built, within a park that has the lw cf map recorded on it, then you have to consult with NPs and they're not fast.
Andrea Vona: So I mean I don't like what is even that timeline look like like I don't know the end is someone going to remember that in 50 years.
Kitty Craig (she/her): it's hard definitely not no color speak.
Andrea Vona: yeah I mean.
Andrea Vona: Oh, I don't know.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): um so I know we're like over time, I just want to ask, and if I missed anything if there's any follow up anyone has, at this moment, otherwise I can just send out the email with the information on attributing the report and any follow up questions we may have.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): yeah, but I just want to say thank you so much for both for your time.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): And for coming to talk to us and, hopefully, you know really informing this report to bring back to NPs.
Clement Lau | DPR: Thank you.
Kitty Craig (she/her): So this was great you are the first.
Kitty Craig (she/her): city or county that we've chatted talk to you like real applicant kind of doing the work, so this has been really insightful and i'll help us we're going to meet with a few others as well, so this conversation kind of helps us.
Kitty Craig (she/her): understand some of those challenges right, you know, on the ground versus translated through a State Agency so so thank you.
Andrea Vona: I would assume that your results will would also be applicable to the lw cf program in.
Andrea Vona: General.
Andrea Vona: or no.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): I think a lot of the like like especially things are like written in law that will be applicable I think that's a big issue that people are having with or look and i'll WCs in perpetuity and just match the matching grant and things like that.
Andrea Vona: yeah do you know i'm sorry I know we're over time, but what do you know why there's a matching requirement.
Kitty Craig (she/her): it's in the founding legislation of all wc oh.
Kitty Craig (she/her): It is yeah and that's always what we run up against with this issue is that all you gotta you gotta go to Congress to change it.
Kitty Craig (she/her): So you need legislation to change it, and actually there's active legislation now that actually Senator pity is sponsoring to write in a match Weaver option for for this program in particular.
Kitty Craig (she/her): That that led UCF doesn't have, and so I think, as you may recall, as you know, like, I think it could be something that should be in the long term reform of lw cf but you've got to open up that legislation to get at it and which can be.
Andrea Vona: A little hard yeah I feel like we I we lobbied for I think it was like 15 years for the permanent.
Andrea Vona: yeah I remember working on that, like 12 years ago.
Andrea Vona: yeah something.
Andrea Vona: But I yeah maybe they can take the 25% of the.
Andrea Vona: unspent or look funds and like grantham someone to someone is matching the future years.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah I know what was it like we need to think of a sliding scale or something.
Andrea Vona: I.
Kitty Craig (she/her): can't be if you're asking if this if this program is meant for communities that need the you know need to meet these needs.
Kitty Craig (she/her): We need to figure out how to meet them in the middle, or you know meet them all the way, but not asking them to you know put 50% of that funding up front and hold on.
Kitty Craig (she/her): For years, while the Agency kind of figures out there, half the deal so.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Those are theirs.
Kitty Craig (she/her): And I there's a broad recognition, and I think that there's real opportunity to fix that specifically for this program but it doesn't help solve the larger the vcs yeah.
Andrea Vona: But no, it would be, it makes sense to start with, or look.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Like get one little foot in the door.
Kitty Craig (she/her): and see what happens.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah now we're learning, so much so thank you you're helping us build out the story.
Kitty Craig (she/her): For sure.
Kitty Craig (she/her): yeah and and I do have more time, I mean it's i've got a little more time, if you want to share anything else, but I want to respect respect your time as well, I mean you, all this is one very small aspect of your work.
Thank you.
Andrea Vona: Well i'm like I say yeah I was supposed to be at the I won't have to go to another meeting that i'm like.
Andrea Vona: it's a giant meeting, so I think it won't be too, too, hopefully it conspicuously absent.
Andrea Vona: But thank you all.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Thank you.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Okay well wonderful, but look for follow up and we may follow up with you on some additional clarifying coins, but also if you've got some other ideas that jump into your head don't hesitate to reach back out to us.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Throughout this process we're just in this information gathering phase for another month or so so.
Andrea Vona: Okay, great well when they reject her l WCs map again for the third time i'll evaluate.
Kitty Craig (she/her): rejected for the third time.
Andrea Vona: i'm kidding we've been going right it's just the going around and around and around with.
Clement Lau | DPR: Her timeline but there was.
Clement Lau | DPR: A good know it's like.
Andrea Vona: yeah i'm being generous.
Kitty Craig (she/her): We have just makes you feel better but we've heard and.
Kitty Craig (she/her): PS like wants an answer now, and and but they'll still take, like all day all as much time as they want to get back to you we've heard that.
Kitty Craig (she/her): kind of have some challenges timely responses and communication.
Andrea Vona: yeah I feel like that standard for funders like yeah you have to you have to comply, to their deadlines, but somehow funders don't need to really tell you when they're exactly going to know award or yeah I guess when you hold the purse.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Power yeah.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Okay well wonderful we learned so much, and thank you for your time thanks syriana.
Ariana Hernandez (she/hers): Thank you.
Andrea Vona: Thanks bye bye.
Kitty Craig (she/her): Okay today.